All right, guys, in this video, we're going to style some menus.
So we're going to create a vertical side menu and then also a navigation bar that goes horizontal.
So let's create a new file called zero nine underscore menus dot HTML.
And for the title, I'm just going to say menu styling and let's add in our style tags.
And for the markup we just want to add a UL and I'm going to give it a class of side menu.
We're going to have a list item with a link inside of it, doesn't matter where it goes.
And then let's just say home for the text and then we'll copy this down a few times.
And this one will be about this will be services and this will be contact.
Let's save that.
It's open it up.
And there we go.
Looks horrendous.
First thing I'm going to do is for the body.
I'm just going to change the font family to let's do aerial.
And next thing, we want to target the side menu, which is the UL.
And I want to get rid of the bullets because by default you always have these, these disc bullets.
Now you can get rid of these within the UL or within the list item with the list style property.
And we want to set that to none.
So we'll save that.
That gets rid of them.
You can see we also have the Ariel font.
Next thing I want to do is add a border around the whole UL.
So we'll say border and let's set it to one pixel.
I want to do a light gray so I'm going to do deed and let's do solid.
Save that good.
Let's do a border radius.
Just to add a slight curve, I'll do ten pixels and let's set a width of 300 pixels, kind of shorten
it a little bit and let's set the padding.
Now by default, unordered lists have 40 pixels padding on the left, as you can see, that's pushed
over.
So doing padding 20 pixels on all sides is going to overwrite that.
So if I save that, you can see now we have 20 pixels on all sides.
And I think yeah, I think that's all I want to do for the UL.
So now we're going to focus on the list items themselves.
So side not slide side menu list items and we want to set the font size a little bigger by default.
It's 16, we're going to set it to 18.
I think I have this zoomed in.
Let me just see real quick.
Yeah.
So that's a that's normal.
That's 100%.
So font size 18, I also want them spread apart quite a bit.
So I'm going to use line height and set it to 2.4.
Mm.
Save that and it's going to spread them apart.
Let's see, what else do we want here.
Let's do a border bottom on each one
and I'm going to do dotted for the style one pixel and the same color as the UL border.
So you can see that each one now has this this bottom border.
Now, one thing I want to show you is the borders are I put them here to separate the links and we don't
need the last one under contact.
So we can actually use a pseudo pseudo selector called last child to target the last list item.
So let's say side menu, Li Colon, last child and we'll get into some of the other pseudo selectors
later on.
We can select the first one.
We can select anything in the middle.
We can do like all the even all the odd and it's pretty powerful.
But just for now, we're going to use last child and set border to none and save.
And now the last link here or the last list item doesn't have a border.
So for the styling of the actual links, the colour and the underline, we have to target the a tag.
So let's do side menu list item A and let's change the color to three, three, three.
Let's get rid of the underline with text decoration.
None.
Save that.
And for the hover right now, it doesn't change at all.
So I want to actually change the color for that.
So let's say side.
I don't know why I keep doing slide.
Let's do like a colon hover and let's change the color to coral.
So now when I hover over a link, it turns into the coral color.
All right.
So I think that that's pretty much it.
It's not the best looking menu, but it looks a lot better than the standard unordered list.
So now we're going to move on to the navigation menu.
So I'm just going to put a comment right here.
Side menu.
And down here, let's just copy this up.
So I'm going to do shift option up and this one, I'm going to change the class to NAV Bar and let's
just put a couple of line breaks in between these two to kind of just separate them a little bit.
All right.
So this is our nav bar.
So we want this to be to go straight across and we want these links or the list items to float.
So let's go under.
Actually, we'll go above since nav bars at the top.
All right.
So we want to target the UL, which is called NAV Bar.
And the first thing I want to do is remove the list, the bullets.
So we're going to say list style none.
Okay.
Now I want to take away all the margin and all the padding.
Save that.
Good.
Let's see.
Next thing we want to do is add the background.
I'm going to use that Facebook style blue, which is 4c6, c, a zero.
Okay.
We'll save that.
Let's add a border radius of five pixels.
Now I'm going to go down here and we're going to say nav bar list item and we want to float these because
we want them to be side by side.
We don't want them to go down.
We don't want them to be vertical.
So let's float all of the list items to the left so they'll kind of just stack side by side.
So we'll save that.
And it happened.
They float.
They float now to the left, but the background is now gone since we floated it, it kind of just kind
of collapsed the background.
So the way that we can fix this is go to the nav bar, the parent element, and we want to add in overflow
and set that to auto and save.
And now we get the background back.
All right.
Because now the background is going to basically pertain to whatever content is inside of it.
And you can set this to hidden as well.
If you have some some content that goes outside of the element and it has a scroll bar and let's say
you don't want that scroll bar there, you can set overflow to hidden and I'm sure we'll run into that
later.
But now that we have the background, let's start to style the links.
So we want to say nav bar like a and let's change the color to white and we'll take away the underline.
Save that and we want to display as block.
Let's actually it's actually move this up to the top
now since we display block we we can add some padding and it's going to actually it's going to give
some space on the top bottom here also space in between all of the links.
So let's say for each link, we want some padding.
We want to do 15 on the top and bottom and we want to do 20 on the left and right.
So let's save that.
And there we go.
So it kind of filled out the the wrapper, the nav bar UL.
All right.
So that looks pretty good.
Let's make it so that when we hover over a link, the background changes color.
So I'm just going to make it a slightly darker than the blue it already is.
So let's say nav bar
list item a hover and we're going to do a background
color and that's going to be let's see, what is that going to be?
446190, which is slightly darker.
We can also change the color of the text.
We'll just do like a light gray slight change.
So now if we go up and we hover, you'll see that it changes the background and it takes up the whole
the whole area of the link.
Now sometimes you might see people put the padding on the list item, but that's not really a good idea,
especially if you want to have the the hover state take up the whole thing like this.
Otherwise it would just take up like a square around it, which doesn't look very good and you'll see
different ways to create nav bars.
I think that this specific CSS is probably the easiest to do this and you'll see if I make this bigger,
it just stretches along if I make it really small.
Well, actually, we don't have enough links here, but if we had more links, it would just knock on
to the next line, which doesn't look very good.
So later on, I'm going to show you how to create a more responsive nav bar where it will kind of,
you know, when you get to a certain screen size, like like for a smartphone, they'll actually switch
to going this way and it'll look nice and neat, centered and stuff like that.
All right.
So next, I quickly want to look at the display property.
You see how a display block here we can change in line to block and vice versa.
There's also something called inline block.
So we're going to we're going to take a look at that in the next video.